# Crowdfunding_ETL
Project 2 - ETL Mini Project, Eva Pazdera + Tracy Tachick

# About
This project is designed to practice building an ETL pipeline with Python and Pandas to extract and transform data. The data is a crowdfunding compilation for multiple companies over a period of time. Four CSV files were created from the extracted data and then used to build a Postgres Database. A corresponding ERD was designed to visualize the database.

# Table of Contents  
- Starter Files  
- Resources folder  
    - campaign.csv  (created in data analysis)  
    - category.csv   (created in data analysis)  
    - contacts.csv     (created in data analysis)     
    - contacts.xlsx    (original data read in to analyze)  
    - crowdfunding.xlsx  (original data read in to ananlyze)   
    - subcategory.csv  (created in data analysis)  

- crowdfunding_db_schema.sql (code to create the SQL database)    
     
- ETL_Mini_Project_EPazdera_TTachick.ipynb (Jupyter notebook of all code)

# Getting Started  
Download the starter files and connect to your GitHub repository  

# Installation  
This program is coded in Jupyter Notebook / VS Code  

To run the full code you must import the following dependencies:  
import pandas as pd  
import numpy as np  
pd.set_option('max_colwidth', 400)  
from datetime import datetime as dt  
import json

The final database was built and saved in Postgres

# Summary
We initially took the data from the crowdfunding.xlsx file and made two dataframes: category and sub-category. These dataframes had their own specialized id columns. We then used the same crowdfunding.xlsx file and created a campaign dataframe. We did some data type and formatting changes to certain columns in that dataframe. We finally used the contacts.xlsx file to create a contacts dataframe.  

We then saved the above four built dataframes as CSV files and used them to create and ERD. From there table schemas and a full SQL database were created in Postgres and the CSV files were imported into the tables.

# References 
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.




      


